README.md, before:

# OOI/Azure Interoperability <!-- omit in toc -->

## Table of content<!-- omit in toc -->

- [Title proposals](#title-proposals)
- [Article structure](#article-structure)
- [Workspace organization](#workspace-organization)
- [Prototyping](#prototyping)
- [See also](#see-also)

## Title proposals

- Object-Oriented Internet - reactive visualization of asynchronous data using AZURE
- Object-Oriented Internet - Azure interoperability

## Article structure

To get more about the preliminary structure check out the document [Markdown\Readme.md](Markdown\Readme.md)

## Workspace organization

| Folder    |Description |
|-|-|
| .Media    | All graphics related to the research and the article content.|
| .Research | Documents prepared based on the project reference. The content may not be original and contains the research outcome.|
| docs      | GitHub pages - documentation that may be published elsewhere. Not awaitable in private repository - published as [OOI/Azure Interoperability](https://it-p-lodz-pl.github.io/OOI.Gateway2Azure.Article/README.html). |
| Latex     | A final version of the paper prepared using Latex format. |
| Markdown  | A preliminary content of the article prepared using markdown format. |

## Prototyping

The prototyping is conducted in the repositories:

- [Object-Oriented Internet](https://github.com/mpostol/OPC-UA-OOI#object-oriented-internet) - Object-Oriented Internet - Machines to Machine Meaningful Interoperability
- [CrossHMI](https://github.com/Drutol/CrossHMI#crosshmi) - Thesis: Object-Oriented Internet - reactive visualization of asynchronous data using AZURE

## See also

- Postół M. (2020) Object-Oriented Internet Reactive Interoperability. In: Krzhizhanovskaya V. et al. (eds) Computational Science – ICCS 2020. ICCS 2020. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol 12141. Springer, Cham; [DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-50426-7_31](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-50426-7_31)
  - Postół M. (2020) [Object-Oriented Internet Reactive Interoperability](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/341882427_Object-Oriented_Internet_Reactive_Interoperability), presentation, DOI: 10.13140/RG.2.2.33984.56323

- Mariusz Postol, [Machine to Machine Semantic-Data Based Communication: Comprehensive Survey](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/341165347_Machine_to_Machine_Semantic-Data_Based_Communication_Comprehensive_Survey) chapter in book [Computer Game Innovations 2018](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/335524620_Computer_Game_Innovations_2018), Publisher: Lodz University of Technology Press; ISBN: 978-83-7283-999-2

- Mariusz Postol, [Object Oriented Internet](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7321562), [3rd International Conference on Innovative Network Systems and Applications](https://fedcsis.org/2015/inetsapp), 2015, [IEEE Xplore Digital Library](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7321562) [![DOI](https://img.shields.io/badge/DOI-10.15439%2F2015F160-blue)](https://fedcsis.org/proceedings/2015/pliks/160.pdf)

<!-OOI on GitHub->

- [Object Oriented Internet - C# deliverables supporting a new Machine To Machine (M2M) communication architecture; GitHub Open Source Software][OOI]
  - [GitHub UAOOI.Networking.UDPMessageHandler][OOI.Networking.UDPMessageHandler]
  - [GitHub UAOOI.Networking.ReferenceApplication][OOI.Networking.ReferenceApplication]
  - [GitHub UAOOI Releases Page][OOI.Releases]

[OOI]:https://github.com/mpostol/OPC-UA-OOI
[OOI.Networking.UDPMessageHandler]:https://github.com/mpostol/OPC-UA-OOI/tree/master/Networking/UDPMessageHandler
[OOI.Networking.ReferenceApplication]:https://github.com/mpostol/OPC-UA-OOI/tree/master/Networking/ReferenceApplication
[OOI.Releases]:https://github.com/mpostol/OPC-UA-OOI/releases

- [Object Oriented Internet - online ebook][OOIBook]

[OOIBook]:https://commsvr.gitbook.io/ooi/readme

- [OPC UA Address Space Model Designer (ASMD); GitHub Open Source Software][ASMD]

[ASMD]:https://github.com/mpostol/ASMD

Commit message:

Research on publication journal #50
- added future work to README
- fixes #50

README.md, after:

# OOI/Azure Interoperability <!-- omit in toc -->

## Table of content<!-- omit in toc -->

- [Title proposals](#title-proposals)
- [Article structure](#article-structure)
- [Workspace organization](#workspace-organization)
- [Prototyping](#prototyping)
- [Further work](#further-work)
- [See also](#see-also)

## Title proposals

- Object-Oriented Internet - reactive visualization of asynchronous data using AZURE
- Object-Oriented Internet - Azure interoperability

## Article structure

To get more about the preliminary structure check out the document [Markdown\Readme.md](Markdown\Readme.md)

## Workspace organization

| Folder    |Description |
|-|-|
| .Media    | All graphics related to the research and the article content.|
| .Research | Documents prepared based on the project reference. The content may not be original and contains the research outcome.|
| docs      | GitHub pages - documentation that may be published elsewhere. Not awaitable in private repository - published as [OOI/Azure Interoperability](https://it-p-lodz-pl.github.io/OOI.Gateway2Azure.Article/README.html). |
| Latex     | A final version of the paper prepared using Latex format. |
| Markdown  | A preliminary content of the article prepared using markdown format. |

## Prototyping

The prototyping is conducted in the repositories:

- [Object-Oriented Internet](https://github.com/mpostol/OPC-UA-OOI#object-oriented-internet) - Object-Oriented Internet - Machines to Machine Meaningful Interoperability
- [CrossHMI](https://github.com/Drutol/CrossHMI#crosshmi) - Thesis: Object-Oriented Internet - reactive visualization of asynchronous data using AZURE

## Further work

Consider publishing in:

- [IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/aboutJournal.jsp?punumber=9424)
- [IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/RecentIssue.jsp?punumber=32)
- [Journal of Applied Computer Science](https://it.p.lodz.pl/course/view.php?id=12)

## See also

- Postół M. (2020) Object-Oriented Internet Reactive Interoperability. In: Krzhizhanovskaya V. et al. (eds) Computational Science – ICCS 2020. ICCS 2020. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol 12141. Springer, Cham; [DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-50426-7_31](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-50426-7_31)
  - Postół M. (2020) [Object-Oriented Internet Reactive Interoperability](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/341882427_Object-Oriented_Internet_Reactive_Interoperability), presentation, DOI: 10.13140/RG.2.2.33984.56323

- Mariusz Postol, [Machine to Machine Semantic-Data Based Communication: Comprehensive Survey](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/341165347_Machine_to_Machine_Semantic-Data_Based_Communication_Comprehensive_Survey) chapter in book [Computer Game Innovations 2018](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/335524620_Computer_Game_Innovations_2018), Publisher: Lodz University of Technology Press; ISBN: 978-83-7283-999-2

- Mariusz Postol, [Object Oriented Internet](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7321562), [3rd International Conference on Innovative Network Systems and Applications](https://fedcsis.org/2015/inetsapp), 2015, [IEEE Xplore Digital Library](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7321562) [![DOI](https://img.shields.io/badge/DOI-10.15439%2F2015F160-blue)](https://fedcsis.org/proceedings/2015/pliks/160.pdf)

<!-OOI on GitHub->

- [Object Oriented Internet - C# deliverables supporting a new Machine To Machine (M2M) communication architecture; GitHub Open Source Software][OOI]
  - [GitHub UAOOI.Networking.UDPMessageHandler][OOI.Networking.UDPMessageHandler]
  - [GitHub UAOOI.Networking.ReferenceApplication][OOI.Networking.ReferenceApplication]
  - [GitHub UAOOI Releases Page][OOI.Releases]

[OOI]:https://github.com/mpostol/OPC-UA-OOI
[OOI.Networking.UDPMessageHandler]:https://github.com/mpostol/OPC-UA-OOI/tree/master/Networking/UDPMessageHandler
[OOI.Networking.ReferenceApplication]:https://github.com/mpostol/OPC-UA-OOI/tree/master/Networking/ReferenceApplication
[OOI.Releases]:https://github.com/mpostol/OPC-UA-OOI/releases

- [Object Oriented Internet - online ebook][OOIBook]

[OOIBook]:https://commsvr.gitbook.io/ooi/readme

- [OPC UA Address Space Model Designer (ASMD); GitHub Open Source Software][ASMD]

[ASMD]:https://github.com/mpostol/ASMD
