.Research/Middleware.md, before:

# Middleware definition

## Inbook Middleware

One of the biggest issue in this regard is dealing with the systems’ heterogenity in terms of used programming languages, operating systems, or even data formats. In order to
ensure communication between different information systems, developers must establish common interfaces.

Middleware is a type of communication software used to manage and facilitate interactions between applications across heterogenous data processing platforms.
The three middleware categories are defined:

- message-oriented,
- transaction-oriented
- object-oriented

[Publication home page](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007%2F978-3-030-34957-8_5)

### Cite BibTex Middleware

```bib
@Inbook{Sunyaev2020,
author="Sunyaev, Ali",
title="Middleware",
bookTitle="Internet Computing: Principles of Distributed Systems and Emerging Internet-Based Technologies",
year="2020",
publisher="Springer International Publishing",
address="Cham",
pages="125--154",
abstract="In the context of IT applications and especially in large organizations, integration of existing information systems into new IT environments poses many challenges. One of the biggest issue in this regard is dealing with the systems' heterogenity in terms of used programming languages, operating systems, or even data formats. In order to ensure communication between different information systems, developers must establish common interfaces. This chapter introduces middleware as a type of software which manages and facilitates interactions between applications across computing platforms. Besides a brief definition and overview of middleware, several of its characteristics are described. Furthermore, the differences between the three middleware categories (message-oriented, transaction-oriented and object-oriented middleware) are defined. In addition to these theoretical foundations, some practical implementations are presented.",
isbn="978-3-030-34957-8",
doi="10.1007/978-3-030-34957-8_5",
url="https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-34957-8_5"
}
```

## Information modeling for middleware in automation

## Analisis

Commit message:

Middleware definition and ref #49
- working copy

.Research/Middleware.md, after:

# Middleware definition

## Inbook Middleware

One of the biggest issue in this regard is dealing with the systems’ heterogenity in terms of used programming languages, operating systems, or even data formats. In order to
ensure communication between different information systems, developers must establish common interfaces.

Middleware is a type of communication software used to manage and facilitate interactions between applications across heterogenous data processing platforms.
The three middleware categories are defined:

- message-oriented,
- transaction-oriented
- object-oriented

[Publication home page](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007%2F978-3-030-34957-8_5)

### Cite BibTex Middleware

```bib
@Inbook{Sunyaev2020,
author="Sunyaev, Ali",
title="Middleware",
bookTitle="Internet Computing: Principles of Distributed Systems and Emerging Internet-Based Technologies",
year="2020",
publisher="Springer International Publishing",
address="Cham",
pages="125--154",
abstract="In the context of IT applications and especially in large organizations, integration of existing information systems into new IT environments poses many challenges. One of the biggest issue in this regard is dealing with the systems' heterogenity in terms of used programming languages, operating systems, or even data formats. In order to ensure communication between different information systems, developers must establish common interfaces. This chapter introduces middleware as a type of software which manages and facilitates interactions between applications across computing platforms. Besides a brief definition and overview of middleware, several of its characteristics are described. Furthermore, the differences between the three middleware categories (message-oriented, transaction-oriented and object-oriented middleware) are defined. In addition to these theoretical foundations, some practical implementations are presented.",
isbn="978-3-030-34957-8",
doi="10.1007/978-3-030-34957-8_5",
url="https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-34957-8_5"
}
```

## Information modeling for middleware in automation

### Analysis

[Home Page](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6059111)

### Research Gate entry

### Cite BibTex InformationModeling4MiddlewareInAutomation

```bib
@inproceedings{InformationModeling4MiddlewareInAutomation,
  author    = {W. {Mahnke} and A. {Gössling} and M. {Graube} and L. {Urbas}},
  booktitle = {ETFA2011},
  title     = {Information modeling for middleware in automation},
  year      = {2011},
  volume    = {},
  number    = {},
  pages     = {1-7},
  doi       = {10.1109/ETFA.2011.6059111}
}
```

```txt
W. Mahnke, A. Gössling, M. Graube and L. Urbas, "Information modeling for middleware in automation," ETFA2011, Toulouse, 2011, pp. 1-7, doi: 10.1109/ETFA.2011.6059111.
```
