.Research/References.md, before:

# References <!-- omit in toc -->

## Table of Content <!-- omit in toc -->

- [Azure](#azure)
  - [Services](#services)
  - [Software develope kids](#software-develope-kids)
- [Object-Oriented Internet](#object-oriented-internet)

## Azure

### Services

- [IoT Central](https://docs.microsoft.com/EN-us/azure/iot-central/core/)
- [Azure IoT Hub Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/En-us/azure/iot-hub/)
- [Device Provisioning Service (DPS)](https://docs.microsoft.com/En-us/azure/iot-dps/)
- [Industrial IoT Platform](https://github.com/Azure/Industrial-IoT#azure-industrial-iot-platform)
- [Azure IoT Edge documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/En-us/azure/iot-edge/)
- [Azure Service Bus Messaging documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/EN-us/azure/service-bus-messaging/)
 
### Software develope kids

- [Microsoft Azure IoT Protocol Gateway Developer Guide](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-protocol-gateway/blob/master/docs/DeveloperGuide.md)
- [Benefits of using the Azure IoT SDKs, and pitfalls to avoid if you don’t](https://azure.microsoft.com/EN-us/blog/benefits-of-using-the-azure-iot-sdks-in-your-azure-iot-solution/)
- [Microsoft.Azure.Devices Namespace](https://docs.microsoft.com/EN-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.azure.devices?view=azure-dotnet)
- [Azure IoT device SDK](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/iot-hub/iot-hub-devguide-sdks)
- [Microsoft Azure IoT SDK for .NET](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-csharp#microsoft-azure-iot-sdk-for-net)

## Object-Oriented Internet

- [Object Oriented Internet - C# deliverables supporting a new Machine To Machine (M2M) communication architecture; GitHub Open Source Software][OOI]
  - [GitHub UAOOI.Networking.UDPMessageHandler][OOI.Networking.UDPMessageHandler]
  - [GitHub UAOOI.Networking.ReferenceApplication][OOI.Networking.ReferenceApplication]
  - [GitHub UAOOI Releases Page][OOI.Releases]

[OOI]:https://github.com/mpostol/OPC-UA-OOI
[OOI.Networking.UDPMessageHandler]:https://github.com/mpostol/OPC-UA-OOI/tree/master/Networking/UDPMessageHandler
[OOI.Networking.ReferenceApplication]:https://github.com/mpostol/OPC-UA-OOI/tree/master/Networking/ReferenceApplication
[OOI.Releases]:https://github.com/mpostol/OPC-UA-OOI/releases

- [Object Oriented Internet - online ebook][OOIBook]

[OOIBook]:https://commsvr.gitbook.io/ooi/readme

- [OPC UA Address Space Model Designer (ASMD); GitHub Open Source Software][ASMD]

[ASMD]:https://github.com/mpostol/ASMD

Commit message:

Research on Azure IoT SDK for .NET #19
- prepare the document containing notes

.Research/References.md, after:

# References <!-- omit in toc -->

## Table of Content <!-- omit in toc -->

- [Azure](#azure)
  - [Services](#services)
  - [Software Develope Kids](#software-develope-kids)
- [Object-Oriented Internet](#object-oriented-internet)

## Azure

### Services

- [IoT Central](https://docs.microsoft.com/EN-us/azure/iot-central/core/)
- [Azure IoT Hub Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/En-us/azure/iot-hub/)
- [Device Provisioning Service (DPS)](https://docs.microsoft.com/En-us/azure/iot-dps/)
- [Industrial IoT Platform](https://github.com/Azure/Industrial-IoT#azure-industrial-iot-platform)
- [Azure IoT Edge documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/En-us/azure/iot-edge/)
- [Azure Service Bus Messaging documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/EN-us/azure/service-bus-messaging/)

### Software Develope Kids

- [Microsoft Azure IoT Protocol Gateway Developer Guide](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-protocol-gateway/blob/master/docs/DeveloperGuide.md)
- [Benefits of using the Azure IoT SDKs, and pitfalls to avoid if you don’t](https://azure.microsoft.com/EN-us/blog/benefits-of-using-the-azure-iot-sdks-in-your-azure-iot-solution/)
- [Microsoft.Azure.Devices Namespace](https://docs.microsoft.com/EN-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.azure.devices?view=azure-dotnet)
- [Azure IoT device SDK](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/iot-hub/iot-hub-devguide-sdks)
- [Microsoft Azure IoT SDK for .NET](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-csharp#microsoft-azure-iot-sdk-for-net)
- [Quickstart: Send telemetry from a device to an IoT hub and read it with a back-end application (.NET)](https://docs.microsoft.com/EN-us/azure/iot-hub/quickstart-send-telemetry-dotnet#clean-up-resources)
- [Azure IoT Samples for C# (.NET)](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/azure-iot-samples-csharp#azure-iot-samples-for-c-net)

## Object-Oriented Internet

- [Object Oriented Internet - C# deliverables supporting a new Machine To Machine (M2M) communication architecture; GitHub Open Source Software][OOI]
  - [GitHub UAOOI.Networking.UDPMessageHandler][OOI.Networking.UDPMessageHandler]
  - [GitHub UAOOI.Networking.ReferenceApplication][OOI.Networking.ReferenceApplication]
  - [GitHub UAOOI Releases Page][OOI.Releases]

[OOI]:https://github.com/mpostol/OPC-UA-OOI
[OOI.Networking.UDPMessageHandler]:https://github.com/mpostol/OPC-UA-OOI/tree/master/Networking/UDPMessageHandler
[OOI.Networking.ReferenceApplication]:https://github.com/mpostol/OPC-UA-OOI/tree/master/Networking/ReferenceApplication
[OOI.Releases]:https://github.com/mpostol/OPC-UA-OOI/releases

- [Object Oriented Internet - online ebook][OOIBook]

[OOIBook]:https://commsvr.gitbook.io/ooi/readme

- [OPC UA Address Space Model Designer (ASMD); GitHub Open Source Software][ASMD]

[ASMD]:https://github.com/mpostol/ASMD
