# Reactive Machine to Machine communication state of the art

## OPC UA PubSub Main Technology Features

## OOI Main Technology Features


To address multi-vendor environment a standard solution is required.  => PubSub. The specyfication is abstrack, so concrete oimplementation has been selected OOI. 

- Protocol stack
- DataTypes binary and JSON encoding
- Data Transfer Object embedded in the NetworkMessage

## Problem

As stated in Sec. 1 the interoperability of the **machine-centric** cyber-physical systems and **human-centric** cloud-based front-end can be implemented applying one of the following scenarios:

- **direct interconnection** - cloud-based dedicated communication services allow to attach it to the cyber-physical system making up a consistent M2M communication network using its protocol stack
- **gateway based interconnection** - native build-in communication services allows attaching the cloud to the cyber-physical system using an out-of-bound protocol stack

By design, the direct approach requires that the cloud has to be compliant with the interoperability standard the cyber-physical system uses. As a result, it becomes a consistent part of the cyber-physical system.

Data models, roles, and responsibility differences of both solutions make this approach imposable or impractical in typical cases.  

This article addresses further research on the integration of the cyber-physical systems in the context of new emerging disciplines, i.e. Industry 4.0 (I4.0) and the Internet of Things (IoT). The new architecture is proposed for integration of the multi-vendor **machine-centric** cyber-physical system designed atop of M2M reactive communication and emerging cloud computing as a **human-centric** front-end. To support the multi-vendor environment OPC Unified Architecture interoperability standard has been selected. The proposals are backed by proof of concept reference implementations. Prototyping addresses Microsoft Azure Cloud as an example. The prototyping outcome has been just published on GitHub as the open-source (MIT licensed). The proposed solutions have been harmonized with the more general concept called the Object-Oriented Internet.

how to interconnect two completely different environment:

1. machine-centric reactive interoperability addressing real-time mobile applications
1. human-centric interactive web based user graphical interface

## Architecture scenarios

- tightly coupled  - treat Azure as tightly coupled communication part of the m2m
- loosely coupled - use gateway as the intensional man in the middle

## Requirements

- standard base
- reactive interoperability (sessionless)
- gateway architecture
  - gateway is part of the M2M communication network (in-baud )
  - out-of-band communication - asynchronous data exchange
  - semantic-context integration (types mapping)
  - security context independency
  - separation of concerns - composable implementation

## Library selection against the problem

It is real a The defined in sec. problem is engineering challenge is how to interconnect two completely different environment:

1. machine centric reactive interoperability addressing real-time mobile applications
1. human centric interactive web based user graphical interface

Why reactive interoperability

- data mobility
- network trafik asymmetry
- serverless implementation (self contained implementation)

## Sessionless

- Without a session; taking the form of a series of isolated requests.
- System having virtual session manager used sessionless-oriented protocol to communicate with user device via wireless channel and session-oriented protocol to communicate with host server

## Library description targeting reactive interoperability

In Fig. fig_archit a generic architecture of the Machine to Machine (M2M) interoperability is presented. A detailed description of this model is covered by \cite{RefWorks:doc:5d6cdbbbe4b082ad50f3a83e}, but in this section, the most important features of this model have been abstracted to settle a foundation for further discussion related to systematic design, development, and deployment of the mobile applications compliant with the more general IoT concept. The main aim is the examination of how the model addresses challenges defined in Section \ref*{sec.intro}.

## Mobility

For any generic solution addressing the development and deployment of the cyber-physical system the data holder mobility behavior must be considered apart from the described above features. Mobile data means that it may come from mobile devices or be generated in unpredictable attachment points.

If the data origin holding asset is a mobile device it means that we must deal with the dynamic Internet attachment point. A typical example of this scenario is portable monitoring or control of the underlying process, for example, a portable healthcare solution. Another scenario is ad hoc interconnected data holder assets, for example, cars entering a service area.

In case the generation places of data are arbitrary it means that the data appearance must be recognized and processed as an event. A good example of this scenario is a product (e.g.~hygiene products, cosmetics, drugs, cars, cigarettes) global tracking system - an application domain where the Internet of Things (IoT) term has been coined  \cite{RefWorks:doc:5d87d1c9e4b0bc72a68d7b46, RefWorks:doc:5d87d02be4b0e88bdacab9a7}. In this context, the IoT is all about:

- **mobile data fetching** - how to gather data from mobile things (data holder assets)
- **mobile data distribution** - how to transfer the data over the Internet to all places where it could be processed
- **mobile data processing** - how to integrate consistently the partial data into a selected application as one whole to improve selected process performance

One of the arguments for the Internet of Things is allowing distributed yet interlinked devices, machines, and objects (data holders) to interact with each other without relying on human interaction to set-up and commission the embedded intelligence.

In case any kind of mobility has to be considered the next engineering challenge is dynamic discoverability on the network and the possibility of establishing semantic and security context of the parts composing the cyber-physical distributed application.

- Machine To Machine communication based on the semantic-data
- OOI PubSub Implementation Architecture
- Simple, complex and structural data processing

Any information about available reusable deliverables related to this work.

## IoT

Internet of Things is all about

- Mobile data fetching – how to gather the data from mobile devices (things)
- Mobile data subscription – how to transfer the data over the Internet to a place where it could be subscribed.
- Mobile data consumption – data processing, computation

To deploy this scenario

- the mobile data must be sent over the Internet using messages;
- the payload of these messages is consumed by a ultimate destination responsible to process it according to the solution scenario, e.g. displacing recovered data using web UI
- the application as an OPC UA client consumes the exposed data and generates revenue for the end-user.

The phrase "Internet of Things" started its life as the title of a presentation made in 1999 and aimed at explaining a new idea of radio frequency identification (RFID) in the context of the supply chain performance. It is clear that it doesn’t mean that someone has any right to control how others use the phrase, but my point is that a precise term definition is important for working together on: common rules, architecture, solutions, requirements, capabilities, limitations, etc. In practice having a common definition it is possible to check a selected technology, solution or product capabilities against requirements of the application entitled to use this term.

My proposal of the Internet of Things definition is as follows:

## from OOI-RI-MPostolManuscript.tex

### Reactive Interoperability Implementation

This section covers an analysis of how to use the proposed domain model `\cite{mpostol2020}` to make strategic design decisions and distribute functionality to reusable loosely coupled parts using the dependency injection software engineering and adaptive programming using the approach proposed in `\cite{RefWorks:doc:5d9796cbe4b0f66c52dccf04}`.

The **Reactive Interoperability** concept has been implemented as an open-source library named `SemanticData` in the project Object-Oriented Internet \cite{RefWorks:doc:5c66740ae4b081adf5804596} designed to be a foundation for developing application programs that are taking part in the message-centric communication pattern. From the above discussion, we can learn that the main design decisions must concern standardization and flexibility. Standardization needs the selection of an international interoperability specification to make the library ready to be adopted by the multi-vendor environment. Flexibility requires an architecture that promotes the polymorphic independent implementation of essential functions.

Piece by piece integration of a cyber-physical system using multi-vendor products requires that M2M communication employs international standards as the interoperability foundation. Following the presented conclusions, OPC Unified Architecture Part 14 PubSub \cite{RefWorks:doc:5d98837de4b055984c0eecf0} is selected in this respect. By design, this standard supports the required publisher-subscriber communication pattern. It must be stressed that by design it provides only an abstract specification. Abstract means that the standard must not limit the implementation strategy. This relationship shall be recognized as the proof of concept to verify that the implementation of the proposed model is feasible to be compliant with the selected standard as envisioned and open to support all functionality required to establish the interoperability context.

For many parts of the **Reactive Application** domain model (Sect. \ref*{sec.DomainModel}) a polymorphic approach to implementation is required. To promote the polymorphic ready solution the following concepts have been adopted:

- `separation of concerns` - to allow an independent development of the parts \cite{RefWorks:doc:5d92609be4b02eb43d372bd1},
- `dependency injection` - to allow late binding of separately implemented parts \cite{RefWorks:doc:5d925b77e4b030b4e0596f5d}.

In Fig. the implementation architecture of the **Reactive Application** is proposed. The common functionality has been implemented as the Software Development Kit (SDK) available as the NuGet package `\cite{RefWorks:doc:5c66740ae4b081adf5804596}`. To promote the polymorphic approach, it has the factory class `DataManagementSetup` that is a placeholder to gather all injection points used to compose external parts. To be injected the parts must be compliant with appropriate contracts expressed as the following interfaces representing the following functionality:

- `IBindingFactory` - bidirectional data exchange with the underlying process,
- `IConfigurationDataFactory` - the configuration data access,
- `IMessageHandlerFactory` - pushing the **Message** entities to/pulling from \emph{Distribution Channel} (Fig. \ref*{fig_DomainModel}),
- `IEncodingFactory` - searching a dictionary containing value converters.

It is expected that the functionality implementation represented by these interfaces is provided as external composable parts.

#### Process Data Access

```tex
label{process-data-access}
```

The \emph{DataRepository} represents data holding assets in the \emph{Reactive Application} and, following the proposed architecture, the \emph{IBindingFactory} interface is implemented by this external part. It captures functionality responsible for accessing the process data from \emph{LocalResources}. The \emph{LocalResources} represents an external part that has a very broad usage purpose. For example, it may be any kind of the process data source/destination, i.e. \emph{Raw Data} or \emph{Address Space Management} (Fig. \ref*{fig_archit}). By design, the \emph{DataRepository} and associated entities, i.e. \emph{Local Resources}, \emph{Consumer}, \emph{Producer} have been implemented as external parts, and consequently, the application scope may cover practically any concern that can be separated from the core \emph{Reactive Application} implementation.

Depending on the expected network role the library supports the external implementation of:

```tex
\begin{itemize}
  \item \emph{Consumer} - entities processing data from incoming messages,
  \item \emph{Producer} - entities gathering process data and populating outgoing messages.
\end{itemize}
```

The `Consumer` and `Producer` parts are derived from the `DataRepository` Fig. The `Consumer` uses the `IBindingFactory` to gather the data recovered from the **Message** instances pulled from the **Distribution Channel**. The received data may be processed or driven to any data destination. The `Producer` mirrors the `Consumer` functionality and, after reading data from an associated source, populates the `Message` using the gathered data.
