.Research/Middleware/ P2PMiddleware4Extending.04222907.MP.md, before:

# P2P Middleware for Extending the Reach

## Excerpts from the publication

## Citation

```bib
@inproceedings{4222907,
  author    = {D. {Pakkala} and A. {Koivukoski} and T. {Paaso} and J. {Latvakoski}},
  booktitle = {Second International Conference on Internet and Web Applications and Services (ICIW'07)},
  title     = {P2P Middleware for Extending the Reach, Scale and Functionality of Content Delivery Networks},
  year      = {2007},
  volume    = {},
  number    = {},
  pages     = {5-5},
  abstract  = {The contribution of this paper is a novel peer-to-peer (P2P) middleware solution for extending the reach, scale and functionality of content delivery networks (CDNs). The research problem of extending legacy CDN functionality towards user-to-user content networking and enhancing the CDN quality attributes of reach and scale are addressed. The proposed P2P middleware solution extends the reach and scale of CDNs to cover the digital home environment via specialized virtual multimedia home gateways and extends the legacy CDN functionality by enabling user-generated content sharing via the P2P extended CDN infrastructure.},
  keywords  = {home computing;internetworking;middleware;multimedia communication;peer-to-peer computing;P2P;peer-to-peer middleware;legacy content delivery network;digital home environment;specialized virtual multimedia home gateway;user-generated content sharing;Middleware;Multimedia systems;User-generated content;Video sharing;Electronic mail;YouTube;Peer to peer computing;Data security;Law;Legal factors},
  doi       = {10.1109/ICIW.2007.46},
  issn      = {},
  month     = {May}
}
```

```txt
D. Pakkala, A. Koivukoski, T. Paaso and J. Latvakoski, "P2P Middleware for Extending the Reach, Scale and Functionality of Content Delivery Networks," Second International Conference on Internet and Web Applications and Services (ICIW'07), Morne, 2007, pp. 5-5, doi: 10.1109/ICIW.2007.46.
```

Commit message:

Middleware definition and ref #49
- applied template to review documents

.Research/Middleware/ P2PMiddleware4Extending.04222907.MP.md, after:

# P2P Middleware for Extending the Reach

## Preface or abstract

**Abstract** The contribution of this paper is a novel peer-to-peer (P2P) middleware solution for extending the reach, scale and functionality of content delivery networks (CDNs). The research problem of extending legacy CDN functionality towards user-to-user content networking and enhancing the CDN quality attributes of reach and scale are addressed. The proposed P2P middleware solution extends the reach and scale of CDNs to cover the digital home environment via specialized virtual multimedia home gateways and extends the legacy CDN functionality by enabling user-generated content sharing via the P2P extended CDN infrastructure.
  
- [Publication home page]([https://a.b.c](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/4222907))
- [Research Gate entry](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/4251662_P2P_Middleware_for_Extending_the_Reach_Scale_and_Functionality_of_Content_Delivery_Networks)

## Cite

### BibTex

```bib
@inproceedings{4222907,
  author    = {D. {Pakkala} and A. {Koivukoski} and T. {Paaso} and J. {Latvakoski}},
  booktitle = {Second International Conference on Internet and Web Applications and Services (ICIW'07)},
  title     = {P2P Middleware for Extending the Reach, Scale and Functionality of Content Delivery Networks},
  year      = {2007},
  volume    = {},
  number    = {},
  pages     = {5-5},
  abstract  = {The contribution of this paper is a novel peer-to-peer (P2P) middleware solution for extending the reach, scale and functionality of content delivery networks (CDNs). The research problem of extending legacy CDN functionality towards user-to-user content networking and enhancing the CDN quality attributes of reach and scale are addressed. The proposed P2P middleware solution extends the reach and scale of CDNs to cover the digital home environment via specialized virtual multimedia home gateways and extends the legacy CDN functionality by enabling user-generated content sharing via the P2P extended CDN infrastructure.},
  keywords  = {home computing;internetworking;middleware;multimedia communication;peer-to-peer computing;P2P;peer-to-peer middleware;legacy content delivery network;digital home environment;specialized virtual multimedia home gateway;user-generated content sharing;Middleware;Multimedia systems;User-generated content;Video sharing;Electronic mail;YouTube;Peer to peer computing;Data security;Law;Legal factors},
  doi       = {10.1109/ICIW.2007.46},
  issn      = {},
  month     = {May}
}
```

### Text

```txt
D. Pakkala, A. Koivukoski, T. Paaso and J. Latvakoski, "P2P Middleware for Extending the Reach, Scale and Functionality of Content Delivery Networks," Second International Conference on Internet and Web Applications and Services (ICIW'07), Morne, 2007, pp. 5-5, doi: 10.1109/ICIW.2007.46.
```

## Excerpts from the text

> TBD

## See also

### Ref \#1

### Ref \#2
