.Research/Middleware/InbookMiddleware.md, before:

# Inbook Middleware

## Preface

[Publication home page](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007%2F978-3-030-34957-8_5)

## Cite BibTex

```bib
@Inbook{Sunyaev2020,
author="Sunyaev, Ali",
title="Middleware",
bookTitle="Internet Computing: Principles of Distributed Systems and Emerging Internet-Based Technologies",
year="2020",
publisher="Springer International Publishing",
address="Cham",
pages="125--154",
abstract="In the context of IT applications and especially in large organizations, integration of existing information systems into new IT environments poses many challenges. One of the biggest issue in this regard is dealing with the systems' heterogenity in terms of used programming languages, operating systems, or even data formats. In order to ensure communication between different information systems, developers must establish common interfaces. This chapter introduces middleware as a type of software which manages and facilitates interactions between applications across computing platforms. Besides a brief definition and overview of middleware, several of its characteristics are described. Furthermore, the differences between the three middleware categories (message-oriented, transaction-oriented and object-oriented middleware) are defined. In addition to these theoretical foundations, some practical implementations are presented.",
isbn="978-3-030-34957-8",
doi="10.1007/978-3-030-34957-8_5",
url="https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-34957-8_5"
}
```

```txt
Sunyaev A. (2020) Middleware. In: Internet Computing. Springer, Cham. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-34957-8_5
```

## Quotation from the text

One of the biggest issue in this regard is dealing with the systems’ heterogenity in terms of used programming languages, operating systems, or even data formats. In order to
ensure communication between different information systems, developers must establish common interfaces.

Middleware is a type of communication software used to manage and facilitate interactions between applications across heterogenous data processing platforms.
The three middleware categories are defined:

- message-oriented,
- transaction-oriented
- object-oriented

## See also

### Middleware for Communications

```bib
@misc{RefWorks:doc:5fe79b268f08b235bc244f9c,
author ={Markus Oliver Junginger and Yugyung Lee},
year = {2004},
title = {Peer-To-Peer Middleware},
journal ={Middleware for Communications},
pages = {81-107},
note = {26; https://doi.org/10.1002/0470862084.ch4},
abstract ={Summary This chapter contains sections titled: Introduction JXTA P2P Messaging System Hybrid Middleware ? a Conceptual Proposal Conclusion Bibliography},
isbn = {9780-470862087},
url = {https://doi.org/10.1002/0470862084.ch4},
doi={https://doi.org/10.1002/0470862084.ch4}
}
```

Commit message:

Middleware definition and ref #49
- applied template to review documents

.Research/Middleware/InbookMiddleware.md, after:

# Inbook Middleware

## Preface

**Abstract** In the context of IT applications and especially in large organizations, integration of existing information systems into new IT environments poses many challenges. One of the biggest issue in this regard is dealing with the systems' heterogenity in terms of used programming languages, operating systems, or even data formats. In order to ensure communication between different information systems, developers must establish common interfaces. This chapter introduces middleware as a type of software which manages and facilitates interactions between applications across computing platforms. Besides a brief definition and overview of middleware, several of its characteristics are described. Furthermore, the differences between the three middleware categories (message-oriented, transaction-oriented and object-oriented middleware) are defined. In addition to these theoretical foundations, some practical implementations are presented.

- [Publication home page](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007%2F978-3-030-34957-8_5)
- [Research Gate entry](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/339225525_Middleware)

## Cite

### BibTex

```bib
@Inbook{Sunyaev2020,
author="Sunyaev, Ali",
title="Middleware",
bookTitle="Internet Computing: Principles of Distributed Systems and Emerging Internet-Based Technologies",
year="2020",
publisher="Springer International Publishing",
address="Cham",
pages="125--154",
abstract="In the context of IT applications and especially in large organizations, integration of existing information systems into new IT environments poses many challenges. One of the biggest issue in this regard is dealing with the systems' heterogenity in terms of used programming languages, operating systems, or even data formats. In order to ensure communication between different information systems, developers must establish common interfaces. This chapter introduces middleware as a type of software which manages and facilitates interactions between applications across computing platforms. Besides a brief definition and overview of middleware, several of its characteristics are described. Furthermore, the differences between the three middleware categories (message-oriented, transaction-oriented and object-oriented middleware) are defined. In addition to these theoretical foundations, some practical implementations are presented.",
isbn="978-3-030-34957-8",
doi="10.1007/978-3-030-34957-8_5",
url="https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-34957-8_5"
}
```

### Text

```txt
Sunyaev A. (2020) Middleware. In: Internet Computing. Springer, Cham. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-34957-8_5
```

## Excerpts from the text

One of the biggest issue in this regard is dealing with the systems’ heterogenity in terms of used programming languages, operating systems, or even data formats. In order to
ensure communication between different information systems, developers must establish common interfaces.

Middleware is a type of communication software used to manage and facilitate interactions between applications across heterogenous data processing platforms.
The three middleware categories are defined:

- message-oriented,
- transaction-oriented
- object-oriented

## See also

### Peer-To-Peer Middleware in book Middleware for Communications

```bib
@misc{RefWorks:doc:5fe79b268f08b235bc244f9c,
author ={Markus Oliver Junginger and Yugyung Lee},
year = {2004},
title = {Peer-To-Peer Middleware},
journal ={Middleware for Communications},
pages = {81-107},
note = {26; https://doi.org/10.1002/0470862084.ch4},
abstract ={Summary This chapter contains sections titled: Introduction JXTA P2P Messaging System Hybrid Middleware ? a Conceptual Proposal Conclusion Bibliography},
isbn = {9780-470862087},
url = {https://doi.org/10.1002/0470862084.ch4},
doi={https://doi.org/10.1002/0470862084.ch4}
}
```
